README.md, before:

# Make your own computer:

## BUILD

### DIY Version (under £200)

**Parts List**

**LAZY? [CLICK HERE (UK SHOPPERS) for amazon prime list](http://amzn.eu/8gzaK4K)**

**Full list of parts:**
This list gives you the details about each item and why it was chosen and what to look for if you want to replace it with something different. While the goal was to keep the cost as low as possible we didn't just choose the cheapest item but rather the best based on a balance of performance/price. 

* [Touch Screen Display](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Raspberry-Pi-7-Inch-Screen-Display/dp/B014WKCFR4/ref=sr_1_4?keywords=smartpi+touch&qid=1570984115&sr=8-4)
This is the screen (about 7 inches) for interacting with the computer

* [Touchscreen and Computer Housing](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B01HV97F64/ref=ox_sc_act_title_6?smid=A337FVOX35P1H8&psc=1)
This is the housing for the touchscreen and on the back the computer location

* [Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B07BDR5PDW/ref=ox_sc_act_title_2?smid=A1TGP1G2G7H27C&psc=1)
The actual computer. It is a credit card sized computer that was designed in Cambridge about 10 years ago. Depite being less than £40 it is still pretty nifty and we will make good use of it. 

* [microSD card](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B06XFZV9JY/ref=ox_sc_act_title_1?smid=A3P5ROKL5A1OLE&psc=1)
This is the storage (memory) for the computer. It is where all the files and programs are stored. This one is pretty good, it has 64gb of memory which is fine but the read/write speed is impressive at about 100mb/sec. Basically the higher this number the better. 

* [Keyboard](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B01G6XGLQQ/ref=ox_sc_act_title_5?smid=A2CBW8FNZCDSJI&psc=1)
You can use almost any keyboard. This one was cute and small wireless model and has a built in trackpad mouse which seemed convenient. Amazon also has the amazon basic range and that would be a good option too. 

* [MicroUSB power plug](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B07FR9L4RC/ref=ox_sc_act_title_4?smid=A1FRA7QRK2Q428&psc=1)
This one is **5V** can deliver up to **3.0 A** meaning your computer, or battery will have plenty of juice (and is regulated meaning device will only draw as much current as they need). 

* [Battery (optional but good to have)](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B075M9LXNY/ref=ox_sc_act_title_3?smid=A1BGBH9ECNVD5F&psc=1)
This is perfect if you want to make the device portable. You ideally want something with lots of energy and the units **mAh** indicates how much it has and a bigger number the better. This battery can deliver 24800 **mA** each hour **h**, this should mean that the computer can last 1-2 hours on a full charge! 

**Other resources**

Here are some [different style cases](https://tutorials-raspberrypi.com/raspberry-pi-3-cases-2b/) for the screen and the computer.

Cool guide on how to [build a tablet (Adafruit)](https://learn.adafruit.com/7-portable-raspberry-pi-multitouch-tablet/overview).

Other [handy touchsreen cases](https://averagemaker.com/2016/05/touchscreen-display-case-options.html).

A [raspi touchscreencase from pihut](https://thepihut.com/products/raspberry-pi-official-7-touchscreen-case).

### PI-Top (Laptop) Version (under £300)

This is a laptop built using a Raspberry Pi and is very cool! It is a little more expensive and you can choose from two different options. I just bought the V1 (cheaper model) and update this once I have had a chance to build it. There is a comparison sheet [Pitop V1 vs Pitop V2:](https://docs-emea.rs-online.com/webdocs/15ea/0900766b815ea49b.pdf) that explains the differences in more detail. Basically the V1 is cheaper, few less features and is a bit more fiddly to assemble.

* [Pitop V1 DEVELOPMENT kit @RSComponents (229.19):](https://uk.rs-online.com/web/p/processor-microcontroller-development-kits/9176213/)
You can pick up this kit quite cheaply and it is worth checking the manual [Pitop V1 Manual:](https://docs-emea.rs-online.com/webdocs/1561/0900766b81561abb.pdf) it looks like ti will take a little time to assemble. It was slightly unclear from the website exactly what is included. 

* [Pitop V2 DEVELOPMENT kit @ RSComponents (£265.19):](https://uk.rs-online.com/web/p/processor-microcontroller-development-kits/1469335/)
The new version has a rail where you can plug in additional expansion packs like a sound board etc. 

### Cheap Laptop Version (between £100 - £500)

Building your own computer is a god experience and is not too expensive either. But another option is to buy a really cheap laptop and there are a few out there that are worth noting. 

**Ultra cheap:**

* [Pink Mini Laptop](https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B006HDQE9U/ref=psdc_429886031_t2_B07X39YFY8)
**£65** 0.5gb ram with VIA processor (which I had never heard of before this) and runs android. No idea if it runs Linux 

* [BIGMAC 10 Inch](https://www.amazon.co.uk/BIGMAC-Computer-Android-Notebook-Netbook/dp/B07X39YFY8/ref=sr_1_13?keywords=laptop&qid=1570990690&sr=8-13&th=1)
**£112** 1gb ram with an ARM quad core (*not intel*) processor and runs android (like a cell phone). No idea if this will run Linux but if it does it would be very handy.  But it does come in pink!

* [Pinebook 64](https://store.pine64.org/?product=11-6-pinebook)
**$99** 2gb ram with an ARM quad core processor and is built for linux. It says out of stock and not sure what shipping costs (or speeds) to UK would be. 

* [ASUS Chromebook](https://www.amazon.co.uk/ASUS-Chromebook-C223NA-GJ0014-Notebook-Processor/dp/B07HJHMCX2/ref=sr_1_fkmr0_1?keywords=ASUS+F556UA-EB71+Notebook+15.6%22+FHD%2C+Intel+Dual-Core+i7+8GB+DDR3+1TB+Windows+10%2C+Dark+Blue&linkCode=gs3&qid=1570992354&s=computers&sr=1-1-fkmr0)
**£170** 4gb ram wth an Intel dual core processor and used (and [recommended](https://portableobserver.com/best-cheap-laptop-for-linux/) by) lots of Linux users. 

**Affordable:**

* [Linux compatible and affordable:](https://starlabs.systems/pages/star-labtop-compare)
This is designed and build for linux flavoured operating systems. I have not used it but at ~ £500 it is pretty good value. 

## Operating Systems

### Raspbian

### Kali Linux

### Pitop OS

### Other flavours and build your own!

 (Cambridge CompSci website)!

### SD card/Flash drive on a mac or pc. 

## Intro to coding

### The Toolkit

Github, Terminal and Sublime text

### *Bash* 5 commands is all you need to get started!
 
sudo, 
ls, 
cd, 
mkdir, 
nano

Some extras

### Python 

### Real programming: copy, paste and debug.

I forget everything all the time. I just try to remember how to quickly and conveniently find the answers. For example, using github can be fiddly. I often forget exactly how to `push` a change or `pull` the most recent version of a repository. Just googling "_How to pull most rcent version of a repo_" and clicking the first or second hit is all it takes. 

This goes for everything. In general before you even try to write a script, go ahead and google it to see if someone has already written it and you could copy/paste. This is as fast (or usually faster) than being an awesome programmer. You can *hack* code together this way and it gets you surprisingly far. 

The other best resource on the web is [StackOverflow](https://www.stackoverflow.com). Here you will find people asking questions they are having with writing a piece of code. About 90% of the time if you are having a problem writing a piece of code then someone else has already had that problem. So, you get an error? Perfect, copy and paste it into google, usually first hit will be stack overflow and very often the first answer will solve your problem.

Don't be ashamed of using these techniques! Coders rarely type super fast and look like Mr. Robot. The dirty truth is they sit around most of the day scratching their heads to find out why their software wont run. So copy, paste and debug.   

## Cool projects to get started

### Build a website

### Build a game

Commit message:

edited the readme to include info on different operating systems and linux distros.

README.md, after:

# Make your own computer:

## BUILD

### DIY Version (under £200)

**Parts List**

**LAZY? [CLICK HERE (UK SHOPPERS) for amazon prime list](http://amzn.eu/8gzaK4K)**

**Full list of parts:**
This list gives you the details about each item and why it was chosen and what to look for if you want to replace it with something different. While the goal was to keep the cost as low as possible we didn't just choose the cheapest item but rather the best based on a balance of performance/price. 

* [Touch Screen Display](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Raspberry-Pi-7-Inch-Screen-Display/dp/B014WKCFR4/ref=sr_1_4?keywords=smartpi+touch&qid=1570984115&sr=8-4)
This is the screen (about 7 inches) for interacting with the computer

* [Touchscreen and Computer Housing](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B01HV97F64/ref=ox_sc_act_title_6?smid=A337FVOX35P1H8&psc=1)
This is the housing for the touchscreen and on the back the computer location

* [Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B07BDR5PDW/ref=ox_sc_act_title_2?smid=A1TGP1G2G7H27C&psc=1)
The actual computer. It is a credit card sized computer that was designed in Cambridge about 10 years ago. Depite being less than £40 it is still pretty nifty and we will make good use of it. 

* [microSD card](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B06XFZV9JY/ref=ox_sc_act_title_1?smid=A3P5ROKL5A1OLE&psc=1)
This is the storage (memory) for the computer. It is where all the files and programs are stored. This one is pretty good, it has 64gb of memory which is fine but the read/write speed is impressive at about 100mb/sec. Basically the higher this number the better. 

* [Keyboard](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B01G6XGLQQ/ref=ox_sc_act_title_5?smid=A2CBW8FNZCDSJI&psc=1)
You can use almost any keyboard. This one was cute and small wireless model and has a built in trackpad mouse which seemed convenient. Amazon also has the amazon basic range and that would be a good option too. 

* [MicroUSB power plug](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B07FR9L4RC/ref=ox_sc_act_title_4?smid=A1FRA7QRK2Q428&psc=1)
This one is **5V** can deliver up to **3.0 A** meaning your computer, or battery will have plenty of juice (and is regulated meaning device will only draw as much current as they need). 

* [Battery (optional but good to have)](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B075M9LXNY/ref=ox_sc_act_title_3?smid=A1BGBH9ECNVD5F&psc=1)
This is perfect if you want to make the device portable. You ideally want something with lots of energy and the units **mAh** indicates how much it has and a bigger number the better. This battery can deliver 24800 **mA** each hour **h**, this should mean that the computer can last 1-2 hours on a full charge! 

**Other resources**

Here are some [different style cases](https://tutorials-raspberrypi.com/raspberry-pi-3-cases-2b/) for the screen and the computer.

Cool guide on how to [build a tablet (Adafruit)](https://learn.adafruit.com/7-portable-raspberry-pi-multitouch-tablet/overview).

Other [handy touchsreen cases](https://averagemaker.com/2016/05/touchscreen-display-case-options.html).

A [raspi touchscreencase from pihut](https://thepihut.com/products/raspberry-pi-official-7-touchscreen-case).

### PI-Top (Laptop) Version (under £300)

This is a laptop built using a Raspberry Pi and is very cool! It is a little more expensive and you can choose from two different options. I just bought the V1 (cheaper model) and update this once I have had a chance to build it. There is a comparison sheet [Pitop V1 vs Pitop V2:](https://docs-emea.rs-online.com/webdocs/15ea/0900766b815ea49b.pdf) that explains the differences in more detail. Basically the V1 is cheaper, few less features and is a bit more fiddly to assemble.

* [Pitop V1 DEVELOPMENT kit @ RSComponents](https://uk.rs-online.com/web/p/processor-microcontroller-development-kits/9176213/) **£229**
You can pick up this kit quite cheaply and it is worth checking the manual [Pitop V1 Manual:](https://docs-emea.rs-online.com/webdocs/1561/0900766b81561abb.pdf) it looks like ti will take a little time to assemble. It was slightly unclear from the website exactly what is included. 

* [Pitop V2 DEVELOPMENT kit @ RSComponents](https://uk.rs-online.com/web/p/processor-microcontroller-development-kits/1469335/) **£265**
The new version has a rail where you can plug in additional expansion packs like a sound board etc. 

### Cheap Laptop Version (between £100 - £500)

Building your own computer is a god experience and is not too expensive either. But another option is to buy a really cheap laptop and there are a few out there that are worth noting. 

**Ultra cheap:**

* [Pink Mini Laptop](https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B006HDQE9U/ref=psdc_429886031_t2_B07X39YFY8)
**£65** 0.5gb ram with VIA processor (which I had never heard of before this) and runs android. No idea if it runs Linux 

* [BIGMAC 10 Inch](https://www.amazon.co.uk/BIGMAC-Computer-Android-Notebook-Netbook/dp/B07X39YFY8/ref=sr_1_13?keywords=laptop&qid=1570990690&sr=8-13&th=1)
**£112** 1gb ram with an ARM quad core (*not intel*) processor and runs android (like a cell phone). No idea if this will run Linux but if it does it would be very handy.  But it does come in pink!

* [Pinebook 64](https://store.pine64.org/?product=11-6-pinebook)
**$99** 2gb ram with an ARM quad core processor and is built for linux. It says out of stock and not sure what shipping costs (or speeds) to UK would be. 

* [ASUS Chromebook](https://www.amazon.co.uk/ASUS-Chromebook-C223NA-GJ0014-Notebook-Processor/dp/B07HJHMCX2/ref=sr_1_fkmr0_1?keywords=ASUS+F556UA-EB71+Notebook+15.6%22+FHD%2C+Intel+Dual-Core+i7+8GB+DDR3+1TB+Windows+10%2C+Dark+Blue&linkCode=gs3&qid=1570992354&s=computers&sr=1-1-fkmr0)
**£170** 4gb ram wth an Intel dual core processor and used (and [recommended](https://portableobserver.com/best-cheap-laptop-for-linux/) by) lots of Linux users. 

**Affordable:**

* [Linux compatible and affordable:](https://starlabs.systems/pages/star-labtop-compare)
This is designed and build for linux flavoured operating systems. I have not used it but at ~ £500 it is pretty good value. 

## Operating Systems

### Raspbian
This is the go-to way to get started. You head over to the Raspberry Pi official website [downloads section](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/) and download the zip file for Raspbian Buster with desktop and recommended software. They have an [install guide](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/README.md)

### Kali Linux
If you want to be a hacker then this is your go to option. It comes preloaded with a ton of **pentesting** software. Tools for hacking wifi and bluetooth and more. 

If you want to give it a try then a [**bootable USB**](https://docs.kali.org/downloading/kali-linux-live-usb-install) is your best option ([for mac installers](https://gist.github.com/widdowquinn/90eecc3a9a52ceb997a1715894df1cc3)). This turns oyur usb into a little harddrive and while booting your systm you can select the usb installed operating system. 

### Pitop OS

The Pi-Top Laptop also has its own operating system. It is based on raspbian.

Follow their [instructions](https://www.pi-top.com/products/os) for install.

### Other flavours and build your own!

Raspbain is a flovour of Linux and is completely *opensource*. You can modify or build a version from scratch. The Raspberry Pi was invented in the Cambridge Computer Science department and their website wtill has some great documentation! 

### SD card/Flash drive on a mac or pc. 

## Intro to coding

### The Toolkit

Github, Terminal and Sublime text

### *Bash* 5 commands is all you need to get started!
 
sudo, 
ls, 
cd, 
mkdir, 
nano

Some extras

### Python 

### Real programming: copy, paste and debug.

I forget everything all the time. I just try to remember how to quickly and conveniently find the answers. For example, using github can be fiddly. I often forget exactly how to `push` a change or `pull` the most recent version of a repository. Just googling "_How to pull most rcent version of a repo_" and clicking the first or second hit is all it takes. 

This goes for everything. In general before you even try to write a script, go ahead and google it to see if someone has already written it and you could copy/paste. This is as fast (or usually faster) than being an awesome programmer. You can *hack* code together this way and it gets you surprisingly far. 

The other best resource on the web is [StackOverflow](https://www.stackoverflow.com). Here you will find people asking questions they are having with writing a piece of code. About 90% of the time if you are having a problem writing a piece of code then someone else has already had that problem. So, you get an error? Perfect, copy and paste it into google, usually first hit will be stack overflow and very often the first answer will solve your problem.

Don't be ashamed of using these techniques! Coders rarely type super fast and look like Mr. Robot. The dirty truth is they sit around most of the day scratching their heads to find out why their software wont run. So copy, paste and debug.   

## Cool projects to get started

### Build a website

### Build a game
